arch-chroot: add page (#5248)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/arch-chroot.md

# arch-chroot

> > Enhanced `chroot` command for Arch Linux installation.

Reviewer: Maybe this is clearer?
```suggestion
> Enhanced `chroot` command for Arch Linux systems.
```

Author: I think no, because this command is a helper for the Arch Linux installation process, not for users of the OS.

Reviewer: Ah, gotcha. Then I'd suggest saying precisely that:
```suggestion
> Enhanced `chroot` command to help in the Arch Linux installation process.
```

> More information: <https://man.archlinux.org/man/arch-chroot.8>.

> - Start interactive shell in a new root directory:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Start an interactive shell in a new root directory:
```

> - Start an interactive shell in a new root directory:

Reviewer: I guess an extra clarification could be useful:
```suggestion
- Start an interactive shell (`bash`, by default) in a new root directory:
```

`arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}}`

> - Specify user to run as:

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this will read better?
```suggestion
- Specify the user to run as:
```

> - Specify the user to run as:

Reviewer: Is the following correct? Would it help?
```suggestion
- Specify the user (other than the current user) to run the shell as:
```

`arch-chroot -u {{user}} {{path/to/new/root}}`

> - Run a command in a new root directory:

Reviewer: We should clarify that this invocation executes the single command, and doesn't enter the chroot:
```suggestion
- Run a single command in a new root directory, and exit:
```

Reviewer: Or perhaps use this opportunity to clarify the mental model of how it works:
```suggestion
- Run a custom command (instead of the default `bash`) in the new root directory:
```

WDYT @navarroaxel?

Reviewer: I'm honestly not sure which of the two suggestions above is more helpful 😅 do you guys any preference?

`arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}} {{command}} {{command_arguments}}`

> - Generate the initial ramdisk using the preset provided by the `linux` package on new root directory:

Reviewer 2: `on new root directory` doesn't really make sense here?

Author: @bl-ue, @owenvoke ?

Reviewer 3: @sbrl are you sure?  This command is about changing the root directory (`arch-chroot`).

Reviewer: Since this is (IIUC) just a more specific case of the previous example, I'm not sure it's worth the trouble of adding it here. I see a few options:

- Remove this example and let the generic one above provide the template for it
- Keep it, but don't attempt to explain what `mkinitcpio --preset linux` does, and why one might want to run it here (as they do [in the Arch wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/chroot#Run_a_single_command_and_exit))
- Keep it and edit the description to provide some context of why one would run this command. For example:
  ```suggestion
  - Generate the initial ramdisk for the new installation using the `linux` preset:
  ```

If this is indeed a common use of `arch-chroot`, it might make sense to keep it.

Author: Well, I think the `mkinitcpio` is not commonly used in this way. So, I can remove it.

`arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}} {{mkinitcpio --preset linux}}`

> - Start a zsh session in a new root directory (the `zsh` package should be installed in the target):

Reviewer: How about moving this example to be next to the "custom user" one above? The sequencing of the page may make more sense that way IMO:

```suggestion
- Specify the shell, other than the default `bash` (in this case, the `zsh` package should have been installed in the target system):
```

(sorry if some of my comments don't make much sense, I'm a little out of my depth here.)

> - Generate the initial ramdisk using the preset provided by the `linux` package on new root directory:
> 
> `arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}} {{mkinitcpio --preset linux}}`
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

# arch-chroot

> Enhanced `chroot` command for Arch Linux installation.
> More information: <https://man.archlinux.org/man/arch-chroot.8>.

- Start interactive shell in a new root directory:

`arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}}`

> - Specify user to use:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Specify user to run as:
```

`arch-chroot -u {{user}} {{path/to/new/root}}`

> - Run command in a new root directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Run a command in a new root directory:
```

Author: I think we should fix the `chroot` page

`arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}} {{command}} {{command_arguments}}`

- Generate the initial ramdisk using the preset provided by the `linux` package on new root directory:

`arch-chroot {{path/to/new/root}} {{mkinitcpio --preset linux}}`

> - Start a sh session in a new root directory:

Reviewer 3: To me this and the next example seem unecessary; I'd say the first example covers all of the functionality demonstrated here.  What do you think?

(also `a sh` is incorrect, at least for me, as I read 'sh' as the sequential letters 's' 'h')

Author: I'm not sure about `sh` but the tip about install `zsh` first is good.
